Docs: fully revised preview-docs command for openapi-cli (#361)
Redocly/openapi-cli: docs/commands/preview-docs.md

:::success Tip
To preview docs using the premium Redocly API reference docs, you must authenticate to the API registry first via the [`login`](./login.md) command.
:::

## Usage

```bash
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint>
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> [--config=<path>] [--port=<value>]
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> [--force] [--help] [--version]
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> --version
```

## Options

Option                    | Type      | Required     | Default     | Description
--------------------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------
`entrypoint`              | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename or configuration alias that you want to generate preview for. (Refer to [the entrypoints section below](#entrypoints) for more options)
`--config`                | `string`  | no           | -           | Specify path to the config file
`--force`, `-f`           | `boolean` | no           | -           | Generate preview output even when errors occur
`--help`                  | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show help

> `--port`, `-p`            | `number`  | no           | 8080        | Preview port. You can set any port as long as it is not used by applications in your operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--port`, `-p`            | `number`  | no           | 8080        | Port number where the documentation preview can be accessed. You can set any port as long as it is not used by applications in your operating system.
```

# `preview-docs`

## Introduction

With this command, you can preview the API reference docs on your local machine.

> If you have a license key, you will get a preview of the premium [Redocly API reference docs](https://redoc.ly/reference-docs). If you don't, you will get a preview of [Redoc community edition](https://redoc.ly/redoc).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a license key or API key, you will get a preview of the premium [Redocly API reference docs](https://redoc.ly/reference-docs). If you don't, you will get a preview of [Redoc community edition](https://redoc.ly/redoc).
```

:::success Tip
To preview docs using the premium Redocly API reference docs, you must authenticate to the API registry first via the [`login`](./login.md) command.
:::

## Usage

```bash
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint>
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> [--config=<path>] [--port=<value>]
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> [--force] [--help] [--version]
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> --version
```

## Options

Option                    | Type      | Required     | Default     | Description
--------------------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------

> `entrypoint`              | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename that you want to generate preview for. (Refer to [the entrypoints section below](#entrypoints) for more options)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`entrypoint`              | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename or configuration alias that you want to generate preview for. (Refer to [the entrypoints section below](#entrypoints) for more options)
```

`--use-community-edition` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Force using Redoc Community Edition for docs preview
`--version`               | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show version number

## Examples

### Entrypoints

The command behaves differently depending on how you pass a path to the entrypoint to it and whether the [configuration file](#custom-configuration-file) exists.

#### Pass entrypoint directly

```bash
openapi preview-docs openapi/openapi.yaml
```

In this case, `preview-docs` will preview the definition that was passed to the command. The configuration file is ignored.

#### Pass entrypoint without extension

You can omit entrypoint's file extension when executing the `preview-docs` command. In this way, you can reference either `.yaml` or `.json` file.

```bash
# preview-docs will preview either petstore.yaml or petstore.json file in the current working directory
openapi preview-docs petstore
# preview-docs will preview either sandbox.yaml or sandbox.json file in the openapi/extra directory
openapi preview-docs openapi/extra/sandbox

> ```

Reviewer 2: This does not work. I wonder where this came from?

Proof:

```
➜  openapi preview-docs openapi/storefront

  🔎  Preview server running at http://127.0.0.1:8080

Bundling...

Failed to resolve entrypoint definition at openapi/storefront:

  - ENOENT: no such file or directory, open '/Users/adam/Projects/Rebilly/api-definitions/openapi/storefront'.

  👀  Watching openapi/storefront and all related resources for changes

^C
➜   openapi preview-docs openapi/storefront.yaml

  🔎  Preview server running at http://127.0.0.1:8080

Bundling...

  👀  Watching openapi/storefront.yaml and all related resources for changes

Created a bundle for openapi/storefront.yaml with warnings
```

Notice: `ENOENT: no such file or directory, open '/Users/adam/Projects/Rebilly/api-definitions/openapi/storefront'.`

Author: It's strange because I can't make it work too now. How then did I manage to do that before?! I will delete that section

> #### Pass entrypoint via configuration file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Pass entrypoint alias
```

# `preview-docs`

## Introduction

With this command, you can preview the API reference docs on your local machine.

> If you have a license key, you will get a preview of the premium Redocly API reference docs. If you don't, you will get a preview of Redoc community edition.

Reviewer: suggestion: We could link to the Reference docs overview page and the Redoc quickstart guide here to connect the products and help readers access the info about each product quickly.

:::success Tip
To preview docs using the premium Redocly API reference docs, you must authenticate to the API registry first via the [`login`](./login.md) command.
:::

## Usage

```bash
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint>
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> [--config=<path>] [--port=<value>]
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> [--force] [--help] [--version]
openapi preview-docs <entrypoint> --version
```

## Options

> option                    | type      | required?    | default     | description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Option                    | Type      | Required    | Default     | Description
```

--------------------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------

> `entrypoint`              | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename that you want to generate preview for. (See [the section below](#entrypoints) for more options)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`entrypoint`              | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename that you want to generate preview for. (Refer to [the entrypoints section](#entrypoints) for more options)
```

`--config`                | `string`  | no           | -           | Specify path to the config file
`--force`, `-f`           | `boolean` | no           | -           | Generate preview output even when errors occur
`--help`                  | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show help

> `--port`, `-p`            | `number`  | no           | 8080        | Preview port

Reviewer: question: Are there any restrictions related to ports; which ports are supported? Can users put just any number here?

Reviewer 2: These are TCP ports on the computer: 0-65535. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_TCP_and_UDP_port_numbers

0-1023 are system ports.

You can use a port as long as it isn't being used by something else.

`--skip-decorator`        | `array`   | no           | -           | Ignore certain decorators

> `--skip-preprocessor`     | `array`   | no           | -           | Ignore certain preprocessors

Reviewer: suggestion: Could we add a short example on how to specify which decorators/preprocessors to ignore?

Author: I believe the answer is located in the PR for the [bundle command](https://github.com/Redocly/openapi-cli/pull/350). We can reuse that part from there

`--use-community-edition` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Force using Redoc Community Edition for docs preview
`--version`               | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show version number

## Examples

### Entrypoints

> The command behaves differently depending on how you pass an entrypoint to it and whether the [configuration file](#custom-configuration-file) exists. There are the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command behaves differently depending on how you pass the entrypoint to it and whether the [configuration file](#custom-configuration-file) exists. 

You can pass the entrypoint to the command in any of the following ways:
- as a full path to the API definition
- without the file extension
- as an alias defined in the configuration file
```

> #### Pass entrypoint directly

Reviewer: issue: This heading should be more specific in reflecting what we're doing with the entrypoint. We're passing the full path, right? I think we should focus on the differences between these 3 methods:

1 - full path
2 - just the filename 
3 - alias from the config file

and make sure the headings reflect those differences.

Author: Not pretty sure about that. Let's better discuss it

```bash
openapi preview-docs openapi/openapi.yaml
```

In this case, `preview-docs` will preview the definition that was passed to the command. The configuration file is ignored.

#### Pass entrypoint without extension

You can omit entrypoint's file extension when executing the `preview-docs` command. In this way, you can reference either `.yaml` or `.json` file.

```bash
# preview-docs will preview either petstore.yaml or petstore.json file in the current working directory
openapi preview-docs petstore
# preview-docs will preview either sandbox.yaml or sandbox.json file in the openapi/extra directory
openapi preview-docs openapi/extra/sandbox
```

#### Pass entrypoint via configuration file

> Instead of a full path, you can use an alias assigned in your `apiDefinitions` within your `.redocly.yaml` configuration file as entrypoints. For example, `petstore`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of a full path, you can use an alias assigned in the `apiDefinitions` section within your `.redocly.yaml` configuration file as the entrypoint. For example, `petstore`:
```

```bash command
openapi preview-docs petstore
```

```yaml .redocly.yaml
apiDefinitions:
  petstore: ./openapi/petstore-definition.json
```

> In this case, after resolving the path behind the `petstore` alias (see the `.redocly.yaml` tab), `preview-docs` will preview the `petstore.json` definition file. The presence of the `.redocly.yaml` configuration file is mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, after resolving the path behind the `petstore` alias (example in the `.redocly.yaml` tab), `preview-docs` will preview the `petstore.json` definition file. For this approach, the `.redocly.yaml` configuration file is mandatory.
```

### Custom configuration file

By default, the CLI tool looks for a `.redocly.yaml` configuration file in the current working directory. Use the optional `--config` argument to provide an alternative path to a configuration file.

```bash

> openapi preview-docs --config=./another/directory/config.yaml

Reviewer: question: Will this work even if the config file has a custom name (if it's not called `.redocly.yaml`)?

Author: Yes, it will.
I tested that case and there is the relevant section about that in the [lint command PR](#360). I will transfer it from there

Reviewer: Awesome, thanks

```

### Custom port for preview

> By default, without providing the port option, the preview starts on port `8080`, so you can access the docs at `http://localhost:8080`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, without using the `port` option, the preview starts on port `8080`, so you can access the docs at `http://localhost:8080`
```

To specify a custom port for the preview, pass the desired value using either short or long option format:

```bash short format
openapi preview-docs -p 8888 openapi/openapi.yaml
```

```bash long format
openapi preview-docs -port 8888 openapi/openapi.yaml
```

> Both commands will start the preview on port `8888`, so you can access the docs at `http://localhost:8888`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both commands will start the preview on port `8888`, so you can access the docs at `http://localhost:8888`.
```

Author: Full stop after links is considered bad practice because people can unintentionally copy-paste that symbol and get confused by unexpected results.

Reviewer: Right, good point... I just wanted to end the sentence :sweat_smile: 
You can dismiss this suggestion, then.
